# Data description

## Research Question
My research proposal is split into two chapters. The primary goal of my research is to determine how habitat changes due to timber harvest and wildfire impact salamander populations in western Oregon, and this portion of the project is referred to later as Chapter 1. I will be doing a resurvey building on a project my advisor completed from 2013-2019. This original project was focused on the impacts of timber harvest on salamander populations, and in 2020 many of those study sites burned. My goal is to go back into those plots and quantify the effects of both disturbances (harvest plus wildfire) on salamander occupancy and abundance, as well as compare results over time before and after the disturbances. All this research will require field work to collect data. The secondary goal of my research, referred to later as Chapter 2, is focused on determining the difference in detection probabilities of daytime and nighttime salamander survey methods. For this project I will be actively searching for salamanders (flipping logs, searching the forest floor) during the daytime and nighttime, in both spring and fall.  

## Data creation

This project will utilize five categories of data:
1.	Historic pre-fire data
2.	Field data
3.	Site-level information. 
4.	Logger Data
5.	Model data

### Category 1 
Includes data was taken by my advisor. We have open access. These are compiled into excel datasheets.  

### Category 2 
Includes all the data we will be collecting for chapters 1 and 2 in the field. Including:  
  a.	Salamander data (diversity, occupancy, and abundance)   
  b.	Habitat data (downed wood abundance, size, decay class, % charcoal, duff depth, and canopy cover)  
  c.	Microclimate data (soil moisture, ambient temperature, and relative humidity)  

These observational data will be taken in the field on paper datasheets and transferred to excel files. During the field work, crews will be visiting a site and establishing seven random sublots. They will search each subplot for 3 sequential 10-minute intervals to estimate individual detection probabilities from each species of salamander. Crews will record habitat information at the point of detection for all salamanders, including size, decay class, and pyrogenic carbon class of any associated downed wood. At each sub-plot within all sites, crews will record soil moisture at multiple depths using handheld volumetric soil moisture probes under and adjacent to downed wood structures, sub-plot canopy cover using densiometers, temperature and relative humidity using Kestrel fire weather meters, substrate type, and sampling time and date. Within each subplot, transects will be established and used to quantify and characterize the amount of downed wood in the plot. 

### Category 3 
Compiled from preexisting data for each site. This includes maps for fire severity, pre-fire stand age, basin temperature, precipitation, and vapor pressure deficit data. We will not collect these in the field.

### Category 4 
Data from electronic data loggers. These will take temperature measurements over time under pieces of downed wood in some of our plots. 

### Category 5 
Includes the coding and modeling that we create in RStudio after data collection. We will be using occupancy models (Mackenzie and Royle models) to analyze the salamander occupancy data in the context of the habitat covariates.

## Amount of data created
|Category|Amount|Description|
|-------:|-----:|:----------|
|1|	~400 KB	|Excel files for 7 years of salamander data and habitat data, R code files|
|2|	>300 KB	|Excel files for 2 years of salamander data and habitat data|
|3|	2-3 MB	|Fire severity maps and climate data csv files|
|4|	Unsure	|Unsure – waiting on advisor response|
|5|	>100 KB	|Plain text files with R code|
|Total| 	>3-4 MB	| |


# Roles and responsibilities

## Project roles
Most of the data management roles that must be accomplished for the entirety of my project will be my responsibility. My advisor will spend time on several of them, given that she is the PI for the project, but I expect that I will be doing most of the tasks.  
**Data generation:** *Chapter one:* I will be creating data sheets that are based on sheets generated by my advisor for previous field work. *Chapter two:* Myself and a graduate student (Graduate Student 1) will create a data sheet, based on a sheet that was used by our advisor for a similar project.  
**Data Collection:** *Chapter one:* I will be leading a field crew and taking data along with other crew members. *Chapter two:* I will be leading a field crew, along with Graduate Student 1, and taking data along with other crew members.  
**Quality Control:** I will be responsible for checking data sheets in the field to ensure that data taken by all crewmembers is legible and complete.  
**Data management and organization:** I will create an excel sheet to organize data for both chapter 1 and chapter 2 field work. I will primarily be compiling datasheets, entering data from field work, and organizing the excel sheets. I will base these excel documents on data that was generated by my advisor.  
**Metadata generation:** I will create tabs in each excel document that describe the metadata for the document. I will include information on column headings, units of measurement, and version-change documentation.  
**Data Analysis:** I will be responsible for data analysis for both chapters. It is likely that I will do this with support from Weyerhaeuser collaborators that my advisor has worked with in the past.  
**Archiving and preservation:** My advisor and I will share responsibilities for ensuring proper archiving and preservation of all data collected throughout the project.  
**DMP implementation:** My advisor and I will share responsibility for ensuring that the data management plan is executed.
If anyone responsible for these roles, either myself or my advisor, leave during the project, all responsibilities will fall to the remaining individual. It will be up to that person to find a replacement for help completing the project.  

## Sensitivity statement
None of my data is sensitive, and therefore does not need to be protected.


## Data Storage
Throughout the project, we will keep both paper copies of the data and digital copies in the form of excel sheets. The data from the paper data sheets will be transposed to the excel sheets weekly, and physical copies will be kept in a folder in my office on the OSU campus. 

## Data Backup
The digital excel files will be stored in three locations: a local copy will be kept on my personal computer, a shared copy will be stored in a shared Box drive, and a third copy will be saved to a personal external hard drive. The shared drive will be shared with my advisor and another graduate student, so that the data access will not be lost when I leave the university. The local and shared copies will be updated automatically, but the third copy must be manually uploaded to the external hard drive. I will do this on a weekly basis.


# Data standards and metadata

# Storage and security

# Access and data sharing

# Archiving and preservation
